- The world of software is on fire
with various discussions around microservices architecture.
Any conference you go to,
any architect you follow on Twitter,
or any other medium where you engage
with established software architects,
you will hear about microservices.
Hi, my name is Frank Moley,
and I'm a software, technology, and security architect
with significant time in all aspects
of the software development lifecycle.
I have been engaged with web and service-based architectures
for quite some time now,
and have experienced many different hot topics
in this arena.
No other architecture pattern
has given me as much excitement as microservices has.
This architecture aims to solve the global challenges
that today's businesses face,
as well as promote patterns of distribution,
agility, and scalability needed in today's world.
We're asked to do more with fewer resources
each and every day,
and microservices answers many of these needs,
but it does come with a cost.
In this course, we'll start with a brief history
of software architectures for enterprise
and internet-based systems.
We'll dig into the three biggest patterns
that have emerged over the last 10 to 15 years,
the monolithic N-tier architectures,
the advent of service-oriented architecture or SOA,
and the new hotness, microservices.
We'll then talk about the services themselves
and how to determine the boundaries between services.
As we discuss microservices and the core concepts
about the architecture, I'll provide you
the basic information you need to make
educated decisions about how your system
can leverage the key concepts.
After we have a footing on the core concepts,
I'll dig into more advanced areas of the architecture,
including event-based, asynchronous communications,
tracing and logging in the system,
and various hybrid architectures.
We'll finish up looking at the architecture choices
you need to make, design considerations,
managing the trade-offs,
and the need for edge services
using real-world examples.
I will also talk a little about the importance
of a DevOps-type culture when moving into this architecture.
This course will be fast-paced
and loaded with industry examples,
my personal experiences, and industry best practices.
This in-depth conversation will leave you
with a solid foundation for you
and your team to make decisions
about moving to this architectural model,
so let's get started.